like I [ __ ] you guys not like I'm really
not trying to toot my own horn but there
are people that are in my practice that
have been on treatment for like have
been in therapy and medication for
anxiety for like 15 years
and within six months we're taping in
the off of medication they feel
fantastic why is it because I'm a
brilliant clinician no this is what I'm
saying I'm not actually any better it's
just I use tools that none of my
colleagues use I use higher data
so I rather so Eyre by this traditional
Indian medicine and differs from Western
medicine and a couple of very important
ways the first thing to understand about
Western medicine is that it's about
dividing in zooming in so Western
medicine is about classification zooming
in sub classification further
classification so for example we have
different kinds of doctors right I'm a
psychiatrist which means in the grand
field of medicine I've zoomed in on the
mind and I've specialized in that and
then even further I'm an addiction
psychiatrist so I zoom in on addictions
and I specialize in that and even more
than that I'm sort of like now becoming
more and more of a technology addiction
psychiatrist so I'm like zooming in
further and like learning more about
technology addiction so that's how
Western medicine works we sort of divide
things into groups like cardiology
nephrology hepatology infectious disease
psychiatry endocrinology pediatrics OB
OB gain right so we divide things into
lots and lots of categories and then we
come super specialize in one category
Ayurvedic ompletely different Ayurvedic
is not about zooming in it's about
generating patterns from multiple data
points so it's kind of looking at
different dimensions of a person in
trying to figure out how can we make
correlations based on their physical
body about what's going on in their mind
is there some way that we can understand
someone's bowel movements and how that
will affect their mind is there a
relationship between how prominent the
veins on the back of their hand are like
I don't know if you guys can see this
but like my veins are kind of visible
and what that says about their mind is
there a correlation between how cold
their hands and fingers and feet get and
their valve movements is there a
correlation between their mind and their
skin so Ayurvedic sat like lots of
different dimensions of a person and
tries to develop an overarching pattern
that describes that individual so that's
like fundamentally different from
Western medicine because what we do in
Western medicine is we try to break
patterns apart and zoom in and
understand individual elements it's like
how does the heart work in this person
what
the principles of the heart you know so
it's just it's like the exact opposite
one is zooming in and one is building up
the other big difference between
Ayurvedic in Western medicine is like if
we think about the gold standard of
knowledge in each system of Medicine so
in in Western medicine or allopathic
medicine the the standard that we use
the gold standard of our medicine is
something called a randomized controlled
trial this is abbreviated as an RCT so
an example of a randomized controlled
trial is I take 10,000 people and let's
say I'm trying to figure out depression
then what I do is I split them into two
groups a control group in an
intervention group and they give 5,000
people an antidepressant and I give
5,000 people a sugar pill then what I do
the reason we called it controlled is
because we try to make the two groups
the same we try to have them have the
same socioeconomic status the same
average age the same gender breakdown so
we try to remove a lot of the
individuality so we can isolate the
effect of the disease and the treatment
so we're trying to get treat depression
not individuals and we're trying to use
randomization and controlling for
variables to remove any individuality
from the equation so I'm trying to just
look at a disease in isolation and a
treatment in isolation and see what the
impact of the the treatment is on the
disease so what this means practically
is that Western medicine is not about
treating people it's about treating
diseases and so that sort of like you
know if you've sort of trained in
Western medicine you may think that
that's the best way but as you learn
clinical medicine you begin to realize
that like people are fundamentally
different right like even if I prescribe
I'm a psychiatrist I prescribe
antidepressants from time to time try to
avoid it whenever possible but one of
the things you quickly learn if you
prescribe medication is that medication
even though like antidepressants will
have a moderate improvement in clinical
trials for people an individual may get
better or may not get better at all if
you give them an antidepressant there's
a lot of like individuality that enters
medicine the funny thing is that our
system of medicine doesn't sort of
factor that in
we don't really factor in individuality
in terms of our clinical trials and the
gold standard of our information so I
read is fundamentally different because
I rather like treats a person it
presumes that all human beings are
different and that in order to like help
someone you have to understand like
individually how they function so I'll
give you guys kind of an example
so I rubella divides all people into
like these three you have this thing
called a Doric balance and door shows
are sort of the three three major
patterns that kind of govern what people
are like
so our Vedas says unlike Western so I
read that says that individuals have
like a cognitive fingerprint that is
like different and that different
peoples have different different people
have different kinds of cognitive
fingerprints what do I mean by a
cognitive fingerprint when we think
about Western psychology we tend to
think that all human beings sort of have
like the same psychology right if you
study psychology you don't study like an
individual you a study like the
different like patterns of psychology so
you study like motivation you study
things like habit and you study things
like you know let's say like hedonics
you study like cognitive behavioral
therapy you study like these general
principles about the mind and like
cognitive behavioral therapy applies to
like everyone right you study kind of
like one thing and it sort of assumes
that it works for everyone because
everyone's mind has cognitions has
emotions and has behaviors and that
those three things are related ayurvedic
that everyone's mind is unique and that
in order to help people we have to
understand what kind of mind they have
because the kind of treatment or
intervention that we want to use depends
on the kind of mind that they have so I
started using this phrase cognitive
fingerprint and I use this idea of
cognitive fingerprint which is like your
unique cognitive makeup and once we
understand your unique cognitive
fingerprint we can structure your life
or your diet or your environment to fit
with your cognitive fingerprint and one
of the biggest problems that I think a
lot of gamers
- is that they assume that they're lazy
are they're not functional or they do a
bad job because they're using sort of a
standard gold stent they're using gold
standard of what it means to be
successful like a standard cognitive
fingerprint so I'll give you an example
like they think that you should be
disciplined they think that you should
be focused they think that you should
wake up at the same time every day they
think that you know these are the things
that lead to success
whereas ayurveda says actually that's
not that's just one route to success and
if your cognitive fingerprint is
different that the way that you can like
be successful is to kind of play to your
strengths so I think this is gonna be
way easier to understand once I actually
explain it starts explaining specifics
so the first thing is that they're three
doshas Vata Pitta and kapha so Vata is
kind of like the wind it does kind of
like fire and Gotha is kind of like
earth okay so this should work great for
gamers because these are like the
elements of your Pokemon right so like
if you have a bot the mind you're like
an air Pokemon if there's an Interpol
come on or like grass or some [ __ ] right
if you're a pit the Pokemon you're like
a fire pokemon if you're a Pokemon
you're like an earth or water pokemon so
I'll give you guys an example so vatos
are like the wind so I'm super Vata so
vodkas have memories and mindsets that
are like the wind so I get really really
passionate very easily like I blow I'm
like a gust of wind so I get super
excited and I say that I'm gonna teach
about Ayurveda today and I get super
hyped up about it and I blow really hard
about Ayurveda and then like a week
later just like the wind I just randomly
die down so my mind gets super excited
about stuff and then like randomly dies
down so I get really I get excited about
stuff but follow-through is very
difficult for my mind
other examples of vadas include like
interests that change very quickly so
you know like a month ago I was reading
a bunch about Carl Jung and now I'm like
okay I'm done with you I'm ready to move
on to something else and so that's a
another example so interests like the
wind the other thing about vadas is that
their their mind learns very quickly so
as much like the wind can blow really
hard in one direction so if you drop me
in a random like job within two or three
days I'll be really good at it
so when I was like in medical school I
did a really great job because like it I
learned super fast
the downside to Vata is that you forget
super fast too so Vaught the memory kind
of like is easy to learn and easy to
forget so when I meet people people
think I'm super smart like you guys
think I'm super smart and then like the
problem is that like if you know me for
a while I'm not gonna seem nearly as
smart as I come across like at the very
beginning because vatos are super
dynamic and their memory like we just
learn things very quickly but we forget
things very quickly
other examples of Vata so remember that
ira that says that like your mind has
correlations with your your body so
vadas are also what we call people with
fast metabolisms so if we look at if we
look at like people's physical bodies we
know that there are three groups of
people like you could sort of just look
at people and everyone knows this the
first is that there are people with fast
metabolisms so I can basically eat
whatever I want to and I'm not gonna
gain a whole lot of weight then there
are people who have medium builds and
then there are people who are what we
call big-boned so medium builds are fit
does and big-boned people are guffaws
and so cover people who are like big
boned
they can eat salads every day and
they're still gonna be chunky that's
just there that's what their Ayurvedic
dough short of dictates and Vata people
are gonna always kind of be thin the
other thing about Vata body types
is that like they have angular features
so if you look at my face like my nose
is like very like angular right it's
like sharp the features of my like my
face is sort of angular and if you if
you guys saw like for example on the
last stream we had Joro which by the way
Joro did do his stuff which we'll talk
about in a minute but we had someone
named Jorah and arose a classic gafas
like he has a very round face like I
can't even like grow a full beard so
Voth a--'s have very like scant facial
hair whereas gafas have like full facial
hair
and devathas also use their hands a lot
so like I use my hands a lot when I'm
talking my mind also jumps around a lot
like for example just now I just
commented about Jordan I was like oh
yeah like I want to say something about
jor and then I'm kind of coming back so
if I thought are sort of like they have
a mind that's like ADHD so compare that
to Pippa's who have a memory that's sort
of like sharp and clear but those
personalities unlike being they're not
they're not as dynamic is about those
but they're very driven they're very
focused but the bit the mindset is a
very argumentative so if you guys have
seen Tom on stream like he's a good
example of a pizza he's kind of like
medium build not very skinny not very
fat he also like believes that like once
he understands something that's the way
it is so like bit does have a difficulty
between understanding like opinion in
fact like if they if they have logically
concluded something they think that that
is objectively correct so that's like
app it though whereas vodkas can see
like all the different angles around a
situation because their mind is kind of
like the wind blows this way okay I feel
this way one day I feel this way one day
I see this person's opinion I see this
person's angle I can understand this I
can understand that whereas bit those
are like they're very driven and focused
so a lot of what we think leads to
success in life is a bit the mind driven
focus ambitious follow-through they also
tend to have medium features not
particularly anger angular not
particularly round and when it comes to
goals they can be a little bit like pit
bulls like once they grab on to
something it's really hard for them to
let go the third door size is something
called toughie
so cava is like earth and water so gafas
a lot of people that I know you know
think that they're not smart when
actually they're just gafas so one of
the things to remember about Gotha is
that they learn slowly but they also
forget slowly so gafas take time to like
get up to there they have like slow
acceleration but they can hit very high
velocities whereas vodkas have very high
acceleration and unlike very like high-
acceleration and like low velocity at
the end of it so they take their time
toughies take their time to get
started guffaws are also what we call
big bones so they tend to be heavyset
it's easy for them to gain weight they
have very round features and goofus tend
to be very very resilient so they can
withstand large amounts of like negative
situations and sort of handle that
pretty well because they they kind of
have like high constitutions or high
endurance whereas like vodkas you can
think of as like people that are like
low HP pools and low endurance so like
buffers or tanks
vadas are I guess like mages and like
bit bizarre like DPS dealers so if you
think about like you know like like
melee DPS like that's a bit though a
tank is a toughie and Navotas like a
mage or like a very like dynamic rogue
or something like that and we're talking
about Ayurveda by the way so I'll just
give you guys so that's kind of like a
brief overview of the three Brook
Ruthie's and we'll kind of dive into
this a little bit more so people who are
Vata tend to get like bored of
situations very easily they have
difficulty with follow through so one of
the most important lessons I learned is
one of my teachers once told me that
what I should do is like as many things
as I can so they were kind of telling me
that I should juggle as many balls as I
can at the same time without dropping a
single one and when I was in college
like I started out doing a bunch of soft
my freshman year like I ran for student
government joined a bunch of clubs
joined a fraternity took a bunch of like
random classes like I took Japanese and
Spanish and like chemistry and like all
kinds of random stuff philosophy and
that's like a super Vaught that way to
approach life you're kind of doing a
bunch of stuff and then over time like I
did bad at all of it cuz I was just
playing too many video games and like I
found that the more I kind of scaled
back the fewer things I did the more
bored I became and the more bored I
became the less I felt like doing
anything and so what one person told me
is that as a Vata you need to do a
couple of different things because your
mind is gonna be your mind is gonna be
super dynamic
so just understand that you're gonna get
bored so now what I do is a psychiatrist
like once I understood that principle I
realize like I'm never gonna have a
nine-to-five job I'm just never gonna
like if I just have a nine-to-five job
and I do the same thing every day I'm
gonna be like bored as [ __ ] and I'm
gonna do a bad job at it so I realized
that I need a structure a dynamic life
and I think a lot of gamers are very
about that so I'll give you guys an
example of like what my day job is like
so I see patients I'm a psychiatrist so
I see patients for somewhere between
like 2 and 10 hours a day I teach I do
consulting so I'll go to like an actual
investment bank and I'll teach a group
of bankers how to meditate I stream and
yeah so like and then I also write so
like I try to do four or five different
things every week and I find that the
more diverse my skillset is like the
more I'm doing different kinds of things
the more I enjoy it because my problem
is not like I never run out of energy
I get bored so if things are interesting
to me then I actually have a very very
high amount of energy and I can work
like 80 hours a week as long as I'm
doing stuff that's engaging so in order
to sort of build a life that structure
around my cognitive fingerprint if I'm
doing one job for 80 hours a week I'm
gonna do a terrible job I'm gonna just
suck at it like week after week after
week after week after week after week
after week I'm just gonna get bored like
I'm already I've been streaming for
about two months and I'm already like
getting a little bit bored with
streaming because that's what happens
like I do something super gung-ho for
like a month and then I sort of don't
feel like doing it and so in order for
me to be successful what I need to do is
like build a life that that corresponds
with my Vata mind so I need to be able
to do as many different things as I can
and still do them successfully so that's
why I became a psychiatrist like if I
was a surgeon like it's really hard to
write books teach and stream if you're
doing surgery it's way easier if you're
doing psychiatry because I have a
flexible schedule and so I think if
you're about what you need to understand
it's like you're gonna get bored easily
so rather than just doing one thing you
actually need to be doing as many
different things
you can successfully so one of the
biggest problems that I see with gamers
is that they think like okay if you're
stuck in life and you're like unemployed
you're not in school you're living with
your parents you kind of think that I
just need to do one thing well right
like I just need to like get my degree
or I just need to find a job or I just
need to move out of your my house and I
shouldn't write a sci-fi TV show I
shouldn't start a business I should just
do my school and everyone that you
talked to says that if you're going
nowhere in life just like start with one
thing and do that one thing well where I
say [ __ ] that if you're a Vata don't
just do one thing that's the reason why
you're stuck is because your whole life
you're listening to this advice that is
for a cognitive fingerprint that is like
not your brain like your brain is not
wired like that your brain is kinda ADHD
so if your brain is kind of ADHD you
need to build a life that's kind of ADHD
and so actually what you need to do is
I'd say start your business enroll in
classes find a job and start writing
your sci-fi TV show do all four of them
just dive right in and do as many
different things as you can and over
time you'll actually find that you know
you have to find the right sort of
balance so that that takes practice so
you have to figure out okay like if I'm
gonna take you know half a class load
can I have like half a class load and a
part-time job and then also like write
on the side or like develop like a
Google analytic certification on the
side so my advice for gamers who are
super Vata is actually try to do more
than one thing because the reason that
you guys go back to video games is
because you get bored of that one thing
but if you have something else that is
interesting and exciting that you can
turn to instead of a video game you're
gonna do way better the problem is that
if you just enroll in classes like you
get bored of classes by the end of month
one and then you start playing a video
game and then the video game has it's
particularly addictive properties and it
kind of sucks you in and by the way
video games are very satisfying to vatos
especially if you play like a lot of
different video games but if you think
about like an MMO like what how does an
MMO like keep you engaged it's because
an MMO is it's just one thing right you
like go and you like harvest
flowers and then you spend some time on
the auction house and then you spend
some time doing like your twenty five
man raids and then you spend some time
doing your five man raids you do some P
P P V P like think about that for a
second if you're addicted to an MMO if
you just did PvP all the time like
you're not vodka the reason that a lot
of people fall into mmo's is because
mmo's offer a really wide skill set like
kinds of activities that engage your
mind in different ways and so what I
want you to think about is think about
your life like an MMO and the more that
you structure your life like an MMO
actually the better you're gonna do if
you have a lot about that so what you've
got to do is think about okay like what
is my equivalent to PvP what is my
equivalent to PvE what is my equivalent
of auction house
okay I'm gonna find a job where I do
this I'm gonna do this side hustle which
is like selling domain names I'm gonna
do like a Google Analytics certification
and I'm gonna enroll in classes like
that's how you should structure your
life do more not less and then
understand that as you start to do
something like prepare yourself for when
you get bored and as you get bored
that's completely fine just move to the
next thing that's like productive on
your list be like okay I'm tired of
studying let me like login and and do a
few hours of my google analytics
certification instructor your life to
have variety if you structure a life
that has a lot of variety then your Vata
mind is gonna be satisfied from it and
then it won't need to turn to the MMO
for variety does that make sense so I'm
gonna take a quick pause and just look
at questions on discordant okay okay all
right so are Vata immature no so this is
a classic example so someone is asking
me avitzur immature no so this is
because our society has a standard of
maturity we say that if you are not this
way you are immature vatta's come across
is immature but what I would say is like
it's like imagine that you have stats
like for a May
and then like you try to do like melee
DPS like you're gonna suck at that and
and you're gonna you're gonna you're
gonna label yourself with being like bad
like immature do you guys get that
immaturity is like a label of just
badness it just means that you're doing
a shitty job at life whereas what you
need to recognize is that your mind has
certain strengths and certain weaknesses
and the more that you structure your
life to be in line with your mind you're
not gonna come across as immature so I'm
gonna tell you guys this very simply I'm
[ __ ] lazy
I'm not disciplined I'm [ __ ] lazy I
still love to play video games i
procrastinate I don't like to do work I
play video games instead of doing work
I'm actually no different from you I
don't think my stats are different from
like pretty much anyone on stream I
think the biggest difference is that I
understand I'm vodka I get it and I
recognize that this is the way that I am
and then I structure my life to suit Who
I am in my mind like strut like
structure to suit my cognitive
fingerprint and if you start structuring
your life to be like design for your
cognitive fingerprint we'll get to the
other doshas in a second then you're
gonna start to do a lot better so the
reason that I'm successful is because I
actually do a bunch of different [ __ ]
and there are colleagues of mine that
are like I don't understand so for
example I you know some of my friends
from residency they're hardcore
researchers so they're like experts in
their one field like I have a friend of
mine who's just an expert in
schizophrenia and she's like a
neuroscience researcher does clinical
work with people who have schizophrenia
does like research on people who do
schizophrenia like just brain scans of
people who do schizophrenia and she has
no idea like how I can manage she's like
if I was doing all the random crap
you're doing I would suck at it and I
come back at her with the same thing if
I was just doing schizophrenia day in
and day out day in and day out day in
and day out I would suck at it the
problem is that our society labels her
is disciplined and mature and labels me
as a [ __ ]
which is sort of true
the difference is like at the end of the
day like we both ended up training at
Harvard Medical School and we're both
faculty at Harvard Medical School and so
how is it that both of us wind up at the
same degree of like professional success
it's because I understand that I'm a
Vata and I created a Nevada life and
that she's a toughie and she created a
couple life and so you have to figure
out what's your door sha and how can you
develop a life that is structured to be
easy for you right if you're if you've
got like mage stats like you want to be
casting spells you don't want to be like
melee dps in someone with a dagger but
the problem is that our society says
that like melee dps is the way to go and
then you also have your tanks who are
like we suck at melee DPS and so then
they look at themselves and they say
like I suck at life because I suck at
melee DPS what I'm trying to tell you
guys is like well you're a [ __ ] tank
so you're supposed to be doing a
different thing you have a different job
and what I like about Ayurveda is that
Western medicine says that melee dps is
the only way to go this is success
Society says that this is the only way
to go this is our Western society works
right we think in terms of polarities we
think in terms of like good or bad we
don't really think in terms of shader
shades of grey we think like Republican
or Democrat we think like conservative
or liberal we think about like
everything is like a pull like a
polarity and but that's just not how we
are there's like like human beings are a
spectrum and the more that you
understand where you lie on the spectrum
the more you can understand how to like
structure your life in the right way
yeah so then people are talking about
mage tanks right yeah so you could be a
battle mage right you can be like like
you can wear heavy armor you can cast
some spells and then you can also like
wheel the [ __ ] two-handed sword you
can do that so some people are by Doric
or tribal shake and the thing to
remember about people that are bi though
Shakur tried though shake is that
they're no like better or worse than
other people it's just like if you're a
battle mage you're not gonna be as good
of just a straight-up spell caster is a
straight mage you're also gonna be like
not have you're not gonna have the same
weaknesses so my weaknesses in my
strengths are very very polarized I'm
not like a middle-of-the-road kind of
person I'm super vada and so if you're a
battle mage you're like you're like a
guff up it Nevada right so you do some
spell casting you do some melee DPS and
you're kind of tanky you're not gonna be
as extreme as any people who are Vaught
that bit they're a toughie but you're
gonna be like kind of like well-rounded
so some some people are Doric like that
so if you're not Vata let's go through
the other ones right so if you're pizza
you're driven your focus your
argumentative I want you guys to imagine
like a dog that like latches on to
something and doesn't let go so upsides
of pizza or that they are like we think
about when we think about bit tha's like
that's what we think about is mature and
successful we think about people who
devote themselves to one career right
they're like I'm gonna be an attorney
and they like work really hard and they
go to school they go to a good law
school and they're like super
argumentative fantastic that's Pizza
downsides of pizza they're obsessional
right so for you guys have seen like
Tom's stream and stuff like that tom has
an obsessional mind he gets like super
caught up with stuff he can't let things
go so it's not like bit bizarre better
than vodkas we just have to understand
the strengths and weaknesses of each one
so Fitness tend to be driven and
argumentative but also have like a lot
of problems with like anger and
irritability
so I fit this get bent out of shape they
create a lot of like interpersonal
conflict they rub shoulders with people
the wrong way they're gonna kind of like
you know when it comes to like
advancement you know they're hyper
competitive which can kind of screw them
over or allow them to be successful
right so that's a bit though so that has
certain strengths in certain weaknesses
and then gafas is like your tank so
coffees are stable they're resilient
which means they can withstand a lot of
punishment so if I would have quit two
weeks in a pit that's gonna stick around
for some time and then like move on to
the next thing a capo will like stay
true to whatever they're doing sometimes
to the point of excess
so the best friend that you can have is
a toughie and I want you guys to think
about the people that you know in your
life you know that person who you met
who is like intensely friendly would to
you and they were like man you are the
most awesome person in the in the world
we are best friends forever
you had this like really really intense
friendship with them you guys did
everything and then they [ __ ] fell
off the face of the earth they just like
one day they disappeared and then you
just never saw them again
and that's your Vata friend right your
bitthe friend is the person who's like
pretty reliable you can count on them
but like it's just [ __ ] annoying to
argue with them like you they get into
arguments with you about stupid [ __ ] and
you just can't like you're never gonna
win an argument with them because
they're just gonna never like listen to
your point of view that's a bit that
your cuff ax is the friend that you've
been with for 10 years then the person
who's always been there for you they
reach out to you from time to time you
guys stay in touch or if you're that
kind of person that's a cuff a friend so
it's not like one is better than the
other these are just different
dimensions and so guffaws are resilient
they're stable like so you should
understand that you're able to withstand
punishment that a lot of other people
you have staying power you have
endurance
you're gonna outlast other people and
over time we've got for the problem that
guffaws get into is that sometimes they
can they're so good at withstanding
punishment that they don't make changes
when they need to
whereas VAT does make changes when they
shouldn't they're like okay I have a
great job I'm gonna [ __ ] quit because
I'm bored they should stick with it but
they don't guff us on the other hand
find themselves in a bad situation or
like a bad relationship and they like
they stick with it even though they
should leave so I'm gonna address a
couple of questions the first thing is
can people have like multiple amounts
absolutely so some people can have like
a Vata memory and like Agathe let's say
like hmm let me think about this so like
people can
I'd be like have Gotha friendships and a
Vata memory like generally speaking they
kind of lump together but everyone is
fried or [ __ ] everyone has some level of
each so I want you guys to imagine that
you have like imagine these are like
stats so like instead of like strength
intelligence and like constitution
imagine that you have a vatos core a bit
the score and a cuff a score and
actually there are you can hold on I
[Music]
think I shared this with y'all right so
here's an example okay I don't know if
this is posted in our discord see so I
want you guys to think about these as
stats
right and everyone has like a certain
number on each stat the other thing is
it's not like higher numbers mean better
things so disease are problems in
Ayurveda arise when you're - when when
you're Vaught that when each of your
dosha stats is too high or too low
so I have a dynamic mind I learned
things very quickly and if my bot that
stat like goes five points higher like
let's say my vadas like a 75 if it goes
like 10 points higher and I hit 85 then
I have ADHD at that point my mind is so
dynamic that it can't focus on one thing
and it becomes like problematic for me
whereas my cuff a stat is like super low
so like if I if my graph a stat drops a
little bit more then I get like sick so
I physically like get ill very easily
like I was a sick as a kid like it's
like kind of like you have a low
constant right like my poison resistance
and my disease resistance and all that
kind of [ __ ] is like really low anytime
my kids get sick I get sick
my wife is kapha so she like everyone in
the house can be sick and she's gonna be
fine so like my immunity is weak so I
have like a low Cod stat high inte right
so I want you guys to just imagine that
everyone has like different levels of
these and you could be thrived or shake
you can be like in the middle for each
of these and I hope if you guys take a
look at the question
there what you see is that there are
different dimensions and that like you
know you can have like Vata and memory
and like gafas and friendships and like
bitthe and career and that's just the
way that you are and the way to become
successful in my opinion is not to like
and this is this is the problem right as
gamers think that there's one road to
success and you look at yourself and you
say if I was more disciplined I would be
successful if I was more like that
person I would be more successful if I
was different I would be more successful
and I say [ __ ] that I say look at who
you are look at your strengths look at
your weaknesses and structure a life
that is designed to be fit you right
like if you're if you're a caster like
if you're playing Dark Souls and you
have like mage stats like use spells
and the problem here is that what you
know you guys just aren't playing To
Your Strengths okay I'll stop using the
word gamers so so play to your strengths
yeah so I just posted the questionnaire
in chat and then I'll post another one
hold on so here's another example so
here's one that incorporates physical
attributes as well so what we're gonna
do
you know actually what I think I'll do
is just I'm gonna switch streams for
just a second okay and what I'm gonna do
so let me just modify some of this stuff
okay we're gonna go to this
okay we're there we go okay so here's an
example of the the bra critique
questionnaire okay so this includes
physical and mental stuff so if I don't
know if you guys can read this but this
is wait so vadas are usually thin often
difficult to put on weight visible ribs
medium build good muscle tone is gafas I
mean is fit those guffaws are larger
difficult to lose weight heavy bones but
the skin is dry cool thin but the skin
is like oily smooth and warm with a lot
of freckles or color in their face so
you guys should go look at Joro and look
at the [ __ ] color in his face he's
got a ton of color in his face guffaws
have like thick skin cool skin oily so
hair tends to be like thin kinky like I
don't know if you guys see this but like
my hair is like kinky as [ __ ] you guys
see this like it it it it kinks like you
see this action like it's not straight
so bit does have like male pattern
baldness oftentimes and gafas hair is
like thick wavy oily lustrous so the
other thing that's really interesting I
don't know if I'm gonna see if I can
yeah kinky here I know so I want you
guys to look at the top of my eyelid and
see how it covers like the top of my
iris that's classically Vata so there
are even things like the more of your
iris you can see that's like bit does
you can see the entire iris of their
eyes and so there are all kinds of
physical oh this is great appetite there
are all kinds of physical features so my
diagnostic question for vadas is are
your eyes larger than your stomach and
what I mean by that is that do you get
intensely hungry and then get satisfied
with a relatively small amount of food
like you feel like you can eat like a
like you know 10 pounds of barbeque but
then you eat like half a plate and
you're like actually I'm kind of full so
that's that's a classic Vata appetite
where your eyes are bigger than your
stomach and you feel super super hungry
you feel hungry erratically
it does have sort of an excessive
appetite guffaws have sort of a stable
regular appetite bhavas tend to be prone
to constipation Fitness can have
indigestion and can have like acid
reflux and like stomach problems Gophers
can have like you know kind of in the
middle yes oh hey gizmo so now the
question is so people are talking right
there
like people in chat or commenting about
various attributes of Vata Pitta and
kapha and so now like what would be
fascinating is if you guys like go back
and look at the comments that people are
making and see if there's a consistency
with Vata right so gizmo has been saying
that that I think that they're pretty
Vata and so they're they're talking
about different attributes that are all
about that
so vodkas are reactive yes they tend to
be very reactive one other question that
I want to get to is someone asked about
myers-briggs so I do believe that
there's some correlation with
myers-briggs and the reason for that is
very simple for those of you guys who
don't know does anybody know what
myers-briggs is based on what's the
foundation of myers-briggs anybody know
you can be a chubby bother nope
myers-briggs is not based on the Big
Five yeah so as Esther Q has it right
based on Carl Jung you know what this is
fascinating you know what Carl Jung's
theories are based on did he come up
with them himself
nope not Freud incorrect nope not
Nietzsche dake Moses has it correct Carl
Jung's theories are actually based on
IRA and Hindu philosophy right so Carl
Jung studies Ayurveda and then comes up
with theories and then myers-briggs
studies call Jung and then comes up with
myers-briggs and so it correlates to
Vata Pitta
so just think about this for a second
remember that Western psychology assumes
that the mind is like uniform right the
body is uniform the heart functions a
particular way the mind functions a
particular way that's how it works and
then myers-briggs comes along and says
people are fundamentally different that
not everyone is the same way that
they're introverts and extroverts that
there are people who judge and feel
right intuitive and perceptive that
fundamentally there are different kinds
of human beings where did they get that
idea why is it so contrary to the what
the the rest of Western psychology
because it's based on you because you
said people are fundamentally different
and then the question becomes where did
you learn it he studied Ayurveda so I'm
gonna show you guys interesting book
okay
[Music]
so here's an example so like Jung
studied a lot of Hindu psychology
philosophy and medicine he's actually
like or Indian Hindu whatever so I think
there are correlations so when I did
some myers-briggs training and did some
stuff myself I was like oh this sounds a
lot like Ayurveda yeah so if you guys
are mixtures of stuff that's completely
reasonable everyone is it has all three
elements right you've got all three
stats okay so now we're gonna move on to
the next thing so stress desert asks the
perfect question can you alternate
between the doshas absolutely so there's
also let me send you guys you guys want
to see science is anyone wondering
whether anyone wondering whether there's
any science behind this stuff like
is this is this like just it's just
theory right there's no like science
behind it this guy's like he's one of
these complementary an alternative like
homeopathy Reiki people it's not real
come on can't be real
[Music]
right
there's no way so you guys want some
science there's the science okay
so I'll tell you what these two papers
show yet some food is [ __ ] right the
first is that what's what research is in
India did there's a there's an emerging
field called IU genomics so researchers
did it as they said okay they gave a
bunch of people these questionnaires and
they said like okay for all of the
people who are Vata let's check their
genome and for all the people who are
pizza let's check their genome and for
all the people who are kapha let's check
their genome and are there statistically
significant correlations between your
genes and your daughter and the answer
is absolutely yes
that all vodkas and just think about
this for a second people who are have
fast metabolisms they have to share
certain traits our metabolism is common
people who are big-boned have a
metabolism that's fundamentally
different from people who are fast
metabolism so that has to be our body
types any person can look at down the
street and you can say oh there's a thin
person there's a person who's big-boned
and there's a person who looks thin but
they clearly take care of themselves
their thinness is not natural it's due
to effort and you can just look at
someone on the street and you can tell
there has to be a physiology behind this
and that's just how it works so our vet
has been looking at this and so be this
the second paper that I sent you guys is
very interesting it actually correlates
Brock ruthie which is what the Potemkin
with different kinds of metabolism and
diseases what they did is they
correlated Brock ruthie like your Vata
Pitta and kapha and how likely you are
to have a particular kind of chronic
disease so vatta's are prone to
autoimmunity autoimmune disease is a
vittatus
bit bizarre prone to other kinds of
diseases guffaws are prone to things
like type-2 diabetes right so there are
correlations now so now there's a
there's a huge area of research emerging
in Ayurveda and the more that we study
it the more that we scientifically
analyze it the more correct it turns out
to be absolutely so yeah I want you guys
to look back at like everything that
gizmo has said gizmos textbook vada has
[ __ ] lupus has ADHD mind is super
Vata has eyes that are larger than their
stomach right like has an autoimmune
disease like I can't diagnose people
over the internet but you know we kind
of diagnosed gizmo over the internet
like I don't know anything about gizmo
but I can predict that the likelihood
that gizmo has an autoimmune disease is
greater than other people who are bitter
or kapha so that's what's awesome about
Eyre venit like you can make predictions
about your life and if you if you sort
of understand that then that's that's
fantastic because you could start to
live accordingly so the cool thing about
Ayurveda is that if you do have an
autoimmune disease if you do Vata
lowering treatments your autoimmune
disease should get better right so like
if you adjust your vato now we get to
the next thing which is someone was
asking a little bit about changing your
door shake level which you absolutely
can do so the next thing I want you guys
to understand is that everyone has a
prakruti which is your genetic amount of
Vata Pitta and kapha it's like the stats
that you are you are like created with
so when you make a character like you
have a strength of 10 and into five and
endurance of 25 then what I rather the
way that I ever the treatment works is
that they modify your your your stats
right they give you like buffs and
debuffs that raise your strength or
raise your int or lower your endurance
like it's kind of weird because we just
think about strength attributes is being
purely positive
that's called your Vic rupee so The Vic
Ruthie is the amount that your Vata
Pitta and kapha are deviated from the
norm
so higher beta has treatments like food
for example there are some foods that
will lower your vat buffer Vata some
foods that will debuff your vada foods
that increase kava and decrease kava and
foods that increase pizza and decrease
pizza there are lifestyle changes you
can make is apoe4 pizza that is a great
question I don't know but let's find out
let's do it let's see if I want to study
this that question is too good to derail
me see this is me being bought that I'm
on a roll and then I just stop haha ah
[ __ ] this is not a peer-reviewed article
is this peer-reviewed article I don't
know what this journalists okay I don't
know that's a that's a great question
I'm not sure okay so yes so people are
asking if you're skinny fat so skinny
fat is up it's just you being unhealthy
and invite that like so instead of
getting big bone like vatos can be fat
it's not like you can't be fat skinny
fat is a Vata that doesn't take care of
themselves but they don't balloon like a
guff up and they're not gonna get fat in
the same way that a bit that does
they're gonna get skinny fat right like
just just look at that phrase skinny fat
you don't call yourself fat intuitively
we recognize that this is a different
kind of fat we call it skinny fat it's
just a completely different kind of fat
it's not a big-boned fat it's a skinny
fat so fat that is like door shuts our
simple to see in your own life and
simple to observe you can see kind of
the proof right in front of you with the
term skinny fat it's not big bone fat
it's skinny fat we know that big-boned
fat is a different kind of fat this
any fad that's what I rather says is
that there isn't one kind of fad
there isn't one kind of mind there isn't
one kind of personality
there isn't one kind of memory
understand which category you fall into
and once you understand which category
you fall into you can adjust yourself
accordingly because the solutions for
skinny fat and big-boned fat are
actually different that you need
different things to result to ideally
fix skinny fat and ideally fix big-boned
fat okay so where can I find the
suggested diet and so on for vodka okay
so we're gonna talk about diet and vodka
right now and then we're gonna also talk
a little bit about different mental
health issues and Vata Pitta and kapha
and then we're gonna jump to questions
simplest thing you can do for vodka you
have to get your bowels moving regularly
so if you're constipated fix the
constipation number one okay even bowel
movements vodkas are cold and dry and so
you want to eat foods that are warm and
moist so any any time you have an option
between soup and salad pick soup vodkas
have weak digestion so their digestive
power is not very high so you want to
cook foods before you eat them
if we think about like if you eat like a
cooked carrot versus a raw carrot and
they taste very different both of them
are sweet but a cooked carrot is way
sweeter so some of the process of
digestion has already been done for you
you've broken down some of like the
walls of the cellulose structure of
carrots so that the sweetness is more
available to you
so Vava should eat foods that are warm
and moist so avoid things like toast if
you have an option of using toasts and
oatmeal in the morning go without meal
for pizzas you want to avoid foods that
are warm and wet so you want to eat
things that are cold and dry so like a
sandwich is a great food for a bit
though salad is a great food for a bit
though gafas are cold and wet so you
want to eat foods that are warm and dry
so toast is great food for
I'm sorry cava okay so cold and dry is
Vata so you want to eat foods that are
warm and wet Pizza is warm and wet so
you want to eat foods that are cold and
dry and kapha is cold and wet so you
want to eat foods that are warm and dry
so that's the simplest change to make
you guys can also like google different
like you can just google Ayurvedic diet
and I'm sure you guys will find stuff
and you can sort of test it yourself so
there are also six tastes sour sweet
pungent or a sorry astringent spicy
anything goodness sour sweet salty spicy
astringent and bitter those are the six
tastes yeah so mommy's different so in
Ayurveda there are six tastes and
there's their particular tastes for each
vada as well so that's what I would say
to start with Vata Pitta and kapha ah
not necessarily
so gluten sensitivity is is a completely
different thing right so gluten is is a
prime example of like Western thinking
so gluten says gluten sensitivity says
that gluten one individual compound is
the problem for everyone so if you have
like if you have a pro allergic thing to
gluten like that allergy is vodka but
what I would say about gluten
sensitivity is if you fix your Vata your
ability to tolerate gluten should get
better so remember that some people have
celiac disease which is a true allergy
to gluten and that some people have
gluten insensitivity but if you improve
your Vata if you lower your Vata your
ability to tolerate gluten should
improve okay so we have yeah so it's
autoimmune but that's exactly what I'm
saying right is like you guys have to
understand that Vata corrects in general
autoimmunity so if you have MS if you
have rheumatoid arthritis if you have
lupus
any of the patients that I work with
when they come in with these things I
give them Vata reducing diets and they
tend to get better okay so now we're
gonna talk a little bit about
specifically about vent until hell thin
iron meta so when a vato mind so we're
gonna talk about how stress affects the
minds of people with different door
shuts differently okay so how does
stress affect your mind depending on
what your door SH eyes when a vada
person undergoes stress their mind
becomes anxious when a bit the person
undergoes stress their mind becomes
irritable or angry and when a guff a
person undergoes stress they become
depressive and isolative you can even
look at let me actually let me see if I
can find our Journal of health what is
this this is me I wrote a paper about
this so I wrote a paper in the Ayurveda
Journal of Health about different kinds
of depression so there's like this thing
called an anxious depression which is
like a depression that like people's
mind is moving very fast they have
difficulty sleeping like their insomnia
so I want you guys yeah and then there's
a cuff of depression which is like what
we call a neuro vegetative depression so
like people they're hyper they have
hypersomnia so they sleep too much they
move very slowly their thoughts are very
slow and it's weird because like Western
medicine classifies both of these as a
depression okay so like dsm-5 anxious
depression let's see if I can find you
guys a good source on this cuz I can't
find if someone can find the paper that
I wrote in the IR via the Journal of
health everything is laid out there
but it's kind of bizarre that in
psychiatry if you look at the dsm-5
criteria for for depression you can have
insomnia or hypersomnia like just think
about that for a second that they call
it sleep disturbance but like they say
that depression is the same whether you
sleep too much or you sleep too little
that just doesn't make sense to me so
another criteria for DSM dsm-5 criteria
for depression is appetite changes they
call it appetite changes what that means
is that you can eat too much or eat too
little both of those qualify as
depression it blows my mind is a
clinician that a disease where you eat
too little is the same as where you eat
too much those are two different
diseases my friends if you sleep too
little or you sleep too much we call
both of those things depression those
are two different diseases there's a
vodka depression and there's a confiden
there's an anxious depression and
there's a neuro vegetative depression
and clinicians understand this if you
talk to someone who prescribes
antidepressants we have two classes of
antidepressants clinicians understand
this we have activating antidepressants
which give people a pep in their step
and then we have like calming
antidepressants we have some
antidepressants that are also
anti-anxiety medications and we have
some antidepressants that are not
anti-anxiety medications so clinicians
understand that there are different
kinds of depression but in Western
science like we just haven't figured
this out yet actually actually we have I
do have another paper for you so there's
also fit the depression so you can have
a vodka depression a bit the depression
and a cuff a depression
anger attacks let me find this in PubMed
I gotta just be a reference person hold
on I know this is maybe not what you
guys are interested in anger attacks so
this is fascinating paper here we go
Mauricio fava okay you guys have to
check out this part
fascinating you guys want to see bit the
depression read this paper
Mauricio fava is the associate chief of
Psychiatry at Massachusetts General
Hospital guys absolutely brilliant he's
a depression researcher and he
discovered back in 98 that there is
another subtype of depression not just
anxious
not just neuro vegetative but what he
calls depression with anger attacks
that's bit the depression the
neurotransmitter profile for depression
with anger attacks is different from the
neurotransmitter profile for anxious
depression and neuro vegetative
depression the neurotransmitters in each
of these depressions is different and
that's been studied so I'm telling you
guys like ire vetas like has this spot
on and if you understand that when
you're under stress do you get anxious
do you get pissed or do you get
depressant why is this thing Fleury so
this is an example of Ayurveda right and
that people respond to stresses in
different ways and if you get if you get
angry angry or irritable when you're
under stress
you should eat foods that are cold and
dry absolutely right so Doublemint Dave
is saying I get angry and just tested
this pizza in the test yeah so and
someone else was saying like art is
doesn't this create a cognitive bias
like yeah it can but I don't think it's
a cognitive bias because people don't
know anything about this they just they
just circle things right a cognitive
bias requires knowledge ahead of time
the other thing is I'm confident based
on the genetic testing that is
statistically significant that this has
real scientific merit right so then the
question is for those of you who are
yeah so gizmo gizmos our textbook Papa
lupus gets anxious that's what I'm
telling you guys so the cool thing the
really cool thing about Ayurveda is if
gizmo balances their Vata their lupus is
gonna get better their anxiety is gonna
get better their sleep is gonna get
better their skin is gonna get better
their bowel movements are gonna get
better because if you lower the Vata
everything that is associated with
elevated vada is gonna get better and in
Western medicine we understand this
concept clinically as well when I'm
working with someone who has depression
and addictions when one thing goes bad
everything goes bad so in psychiatry we
have a saying that all boats rise
together so the water level determines
the state of all of your disease
processes we know that if you treat
someone's anxiety their IBS gets better
we know if you treat someone's
depression their fibromyalgia gets
better right we know this we know that
these things are clinically correlated
but our system of Western medicine is is
looking at individual things and
tunneling down doesn't look at patterns
and doesn't look at overarching changes
but we sometimes clinically we know that
that the even though our system isn't
designed with this in mind we still
the evidence for this idea and a good
example is something like exercise or
meditation right exercise improves
everything meditation improves
depression it improves anxiety it
actually there's a fascinating study
done by the Benson Henry Institute which
looked at something called MGUS which is
monoclonal gammopathy of unknown
significance which is a precancerous
state and taught those people who have
this kind of precancerous state
meditation and then assess their their
genetic activity and actually found that
the pro cancerous genes are less active
after you learn how to meditate so this
may be the first evidence or there may
be other evidence I'm not really sure
because this isn't my area but this is
actually a really interesting data point
that suggests that meditation actually
prevents the progression of cancer and
it also treats depression how does that
work it's because there are some
overarching principles behind human
health and wellness that once we start
accessing those principles to things
like exercise meditation everything
about you is gonna get better and we
kind of know that like everyone if you
guys like look at like you know
subreddits like stop gaming and some
people say like our mental health like
you just ask people they're like yeah I
started exercising I feel better about
myself my like rash has got better like
when I start exercising my skin problems
get better so Ayurvedic is like it's
such low-hanging fruit and you can make
such positive changes in your life by
just adopting Ayurvedic principles so I
think what we're gonna have to do if you
guys are curious we just have to have
someone come on and then like we'll talk
about some some specifics of Ironman but
the first thing to start with is diet
diet diet first line treatment for
mental health problems in our event is a
dietary change change your diet your
anxiety or your depression your anger
will get better and now there's an
emerging field of the hottest topic in
medicine right now is his brain gut it's
this idea that if you change your gut
bacteria your mental health will change
and IRA has been saying that for
thousands of years so now we have
scientific evidence between that
correlates what happens in our gut and
what happens in our brain right so like
this is the coolest study ever and you
guys got to tell me if you really want
references because like I feel like it
breaks my flow but I feel like it's
important for me to back up what I say
so I saw a fascinating study they took a
bunch of depressed rats oh sorry
they took a bunch of depress rats
extracted their stool transplanted their
stool to healthy rats and the rats
became depressed from a stool transplant
that is insane it's completely insane
there are two kinds of bacteria that
have been found in people who have high
levels of anxiety so they asked someone
are you super anxious people who say yes
they test you've got back to you there
are two kinds of bacteria that people
have high levels have high levels of
bacteria if they're anxious if people
test low for anxiety there's a different
to bacteria that are very prominent
fascinating stuff and so if you think
about how does diet change your gut
bacteria so if you eat a particular kind
of food you guys have to understand that
different gut bacteria have different
digestive enzymes so lactobacillus which
if you guys see probiotic stuff
lactobacillus eats what does anybody
know it's lactose so if you eat a lot of
lactose what do you think is gonna
happen to the lactobacillus in your gut
it's gonna grow because that's what it
eats so there's some bacteria that eat
simple sugars some bacteria that eat
lactose some bacteria that eat complex
carbohydrates some bacteria that eat
fiber some bacteria that eat proteins
like different bacterias eat different
kinds of things and so if you change
your bacteria I mean if you change your
diet you're gonna be feeding some kinds
of bacteria and you're going to be
killing off or starving other kinds of
bacteria so how does diet improve
depression it's because there's some
bacteria that are
inflammatory signals to your brain that
cause depression also fascinating really
fascinating study that I just saw
recently people start did a brief
clinical trial of giving people
anti-inflammatories when they're
depressed and their depression got
better so some bacteria create a lot of
inflammation like bacteria that eat that
digest processed foods create a lot of
inflammation and when they create an
inflammation it causes depression yeah
so like the fascinating thing is that
you know people have been believing in I
or rather you want to believe in it fine
the reason that I'm excited behind it
and the reason that I'm such a proponent
of it is because there's actually
science to back it up now we're not
quite at the level of clinical studies
but the basic science really suggests
that I read is is is good and is correct
and I've seen enough clinic clinical
error anecdotal improvement to where I
believe it so people are wondering what
what food do I eat to cure depression
see this is the wrong thinking remember
we just talked about how there are three
kinds of depression there's anxious
depression there's a depression with
anger attacks and there's a neuro
vegetative depression depression is not
one thing that's a Western concept that
there's one thing got called depression
and all depression has the same
treatment that's exactly what I'm trying
to say is incorrect there are different
kinds of depression
what kind of depression do you have
what's your Ayurvedic dosha that's where
you're gonna find the right treatment
you guys got that like that's the whole
point behind what I'm saying this is why
depression is so [ __ ] hard to cure
because it's not one disease that's like
saying what do I eat to cure cancer what
is the medicine for cancer there are
different kinds of cancer Madhu's there
are solid tumors they're lymphatic
tumors there are brain cancers their gut
cancers each of these cancers has a
different chemo therapeutic regimen
they're fast growing cancers they're
slow growing cancers each of them has a
different treatment the reason that
depression is hard to treat is because
people treat it like a monolithic
disease
like I don't know I mean there are all
kinds of reasons why this could be true
but I have very good results with the
people that I work with with depression
like I shoot you guys not like I'm
really not trying to toot my own horn
but there are people that are in my
practice that have been on treatment for
like I've been in therapy and medication
for anxiety for like 15 years and within
six months we're taping them off of
medication they feel fantastic
why is it because I'm a brilliant
clinician no this is what I'm saying
I'm not actually any better it's just I
use tools that none of my colleagues use
I use our villa and it's like it's okey
man I'm not actually a better clinician
so this is what I want you guys to
understand I'm not actually saying I'm
better than anyone else all I'm saying
is that like all of my colleagues who
are treating anxiety as a monolithic
illness are doing themselves a
disservice because anxiety is not a
monolith Achilles there are different
kinds of anxiety and once you understand
that once you start incorporating like
anti rata diets people get better I have
one person in my practice I mean I've
also like I treat people with skin
problems and IBS and things like that
and people like like who haven't had
solid shits in a decade and then we
start them on Ayurvedic dietary changes
and they have solid shits and it's like
it's crazy it's like it's not I'm not
doing anything I'm not doing anything
like extraordinary I'm just telling them
to drink yogurt and water mixed together
in like a 1 to 2 ratio with a pinch of
cumin and a pinch of hydrogen sulfide or
pink salt or Himalayan salt and there it
gets better ok so once again I can't I
can't provide medical advice over the
internet but I will tell you so if you
guys have a medical problem like
diarrhea or IBS you should go and see a
doctor and at the same time something
that you should just try because is is
to take yogurt so like take like just
plain yogurt not Greek yogurt not
low-fat yogurt nothing no sugar or
anything just plain yogurt 2 ounces
yogurt 6 ounces of water
two and a half ounces of yogurt 5.5
ounces of water mix it together add a
pinch of toasted cumin add a pinch of
pink salt drink it every day assuming
you're not lactose intolerant journey to
give you if it gives you problems don't
do it see what happens to your Balboa's
this beverage has been used as a
treatment for cholera in India for
thousands of years
not so yogurt if you're allergic to milk
then don't don't do it but some people
who are allergic to milk can actually
have yogurt some people who are lactose
intolerant can tolerate yogurt and the
reason is because yogurt has been
metabolized by bacteria so that the
chemical composition is more tolerable
than plain milk okay soy is completely
different yeah yogurt gives people acne
absolutely
you know what's crazy you know it's
absolutely blows my mind is that there
are studies that say that diet has no
influence on acne I just don't believe
it like I just don't believe that don't
do kefir kefir usually has like sugar
and stuff in it right no there's no
lactose free alternative this is what
I'm saying I mean there are other things
you can do to lower your Vaught that you
don't have to use lactose but that's the
simplest thing see there you go hallo 3
9 7 9 says it I'm lactose intolerant not
to yoghurt see this is the whole problem
is that Western medicine says lactose
intolerant and it assumes that all kinds
of lactose are the same they're not the
same these are different compounds each
compound so this is what I read that
says my favorite page from a text of
Ayurveda I think is from Charaka Samhita
is one page that compares and contrasts
the different kinds of milk so we're
gonna play a fun game twitch at how many
kinds of milk can you come up with let's
see if you can hit all of them ways at
milk ways a compound within milk nope
nope none of these are correct this is
not milk there we go
there we go soy milk is not milk my
dudes skim milk is not milk goat cow
what else where else can we get human
milk absolutely sheep's milk what else
we've got for you already said milk
human beings don't drink cat milk
buffalo milk five good so we've got goat
sheep cow human buffalo what else what
else do humans drink milk from anyone no
camel milk yes and not daddy's milk
that's disgusting trees no bats no no no
we already got goats one more a horse
yeah and elephant elephant is the last
milk so fascinating this this page
people humans don't drink cat milk
humans drink milks from hoofed animals
that's what we drink milk from right we
drink milk from domesticated animals we
have domesticated elephants in India
right we don't drink dog milk we don't
drink carnivores milk you guys realize
that just think about that for a second
if you observe the world you will learn
all kinds of fascinating things about
humans human beings drink milk from
hoofed animals not carnivores why the
[ __ ] that is I don't know but I read
that says don't drink milk from a
carnivore like I don't know why I don't
know why right just think about that we
don't drink milk from carnivores but we
do drink milk from herbivores we drink
milk from hoofed mammals and then this
text of page of Ayurveda says that the
different milks are good for alleviating
different door shuts and that different
milks are treatments for different
things
so if a human being is recovering from
malaria they should have a certain kind
of milk and if they have active malaria
they should have a different kind of
milk like this is the specificity that I
er vet has it breaks down each and every
food that we have and says that an apple
is different from an orange that a lime
is different from an orange that a lemon
is different from a lime that all fruits
five servings of fruits and vegetables
is they're not all the same when we know
this right so for example if you have a
weak digestion give it difficulty
digesting foods you should eat papayas
and pomegranates on alternate days right
so we like IRA bears been saying that a
naturopath he's been saying that for
thousands of years and now we know
through science that papaya has this
enzyme called papain which like breaks
down food so it makes digestion easy you
guys go to like a health food store you
go to the supplement aisle you'll see
papain enzyme is a dietary supplement to
help you break things down and for those
of you guys who marinate food
why do you marinate things why do you
never marinate in papaya you guys know
why you never marinate in papaya anybody
know okay we're gonna do a fun game
we're gonna do a fun game if you guys
yes right so like if you marinate in
something and papaya it turns it turns
to mush it just straight like dissolves
it and it's like a puddle of like mud
when you're done so if you guys don't
believe me try it right so if what I say
is if you guys don't believe me by all
means try it if you guys are not if you
don't have faith in the fact that we can
predict things and the references have
been insufficient just try it so what
would you say if pears always give me
diarrhea
I'd say stop eating pears
right so this is the thing is that
everyone's everyone's digestive systems
are different and I read that will tell
you what kinds of food to eat and not
eat it's clear to me that we're gonna
have to do a lot more stuff on our vests
so I'm gonna like write stuff up for you
guys like guides to this stuff from
start to finish I'll do it
I've started already but yeah okay let's
do questions